Welcome to The Zenith of Fallen Empires 2.0. This thread aims to provide in detail the workings of this mod. I will try to be as accurate as I can be about the features on the point of release, but as you know, things may get changed in the future. For those of you who have played with The Zenith of Fallen Empires, most functionalities of the mod should be familiar to you. If you want to be informed about some of the design decision I have taken, please visit [url=http://steamcommunity.com/workshop/filedetails/discussion/1317022177/1694914735996500150]this thread[/url]. If you do not want spoilers, please stop reading now.


[h1]The Zenith of Fallen Empires 2.0[/h1]


The core ascension mechanic has been reworked. This is a design decision based on the need to integrate the traditions system and the new features available in ．Cherryh・. It is also fool-proof so you will always know what you need in order to become an Ascended Empire.

[list]

[*]Societal Ascendance, a tier 4 technology. Formerly known as Fallen_Technologies_1, this represents some kind of evolution at a societal level. This technology gives +10% unity gain.

[*]Engineering Perfection, a tier 5 technology. Formerly known as Fallen_Technologies_2, this represents some kind of mastery of engineering, and requires Societal Ascendance, Matter Generation (vanilla tech), Impulse Thruster (vanilla tech), and mega-engineering (vanilla tech). This has various building related bonuses.

[*]Galactic Ascendancy, an Ascension Perk for non-Gestalt Consciousness Empires. Formerly split between Fallen_Technologies_3 and Fallen_Technologies_4, taking this AP will give you an event to become an Ascended Empire. This requires 3 technologies: Engineering Perfection, Ascension Theory, and Dark Matter Drawing. Mastering all three technologies represents the mastery of Dark Matter and the ability to use it as a reliable source of energy. It is always a deliberate and optional choice to be an Ascended Empire. You are of course, welcome to stay as a normal empire so you can fight against big bad AI Ascended Empires. AI Empires will always pick this if they meet the requirements.

[*]The Galactic Ascendancy Perk itself gives bonuses that will apply for all Ascended Empires. After some thought, I believe the current bonuses are the most amusing and most logical of choices. Have you ever wondered why Galactic Contender Ascension Perk allows you to deal 33% more damage to Fallen and Awakened Empires? Why exactly do you do more damage to them? Anyway, it seemed funny to me at the time to turn the tables, so Ascended Empires will now deal 33% more damage to normal empires, as you know all of their primitive designs, tactics, and weaknesses. Defense platform capacity increase is to match vanilla FE defense station capacity.

[*]On the event pop up after selecting The Galactic Ascendancy Perk, you will be given a bit of a story text which somewhat differs depending on the fanatical ethic that you have. At that point you will be given options to select your third civic, your national focus. These options are available depending on your non-fanatical civic, your other Ascension Perks, or some of your existing civics. Once selected, these civics are locked and cannot be changed.

[*]In general, you will have 3 ．generic・ civics that are available for all ethics, and then 1 special civic for each ethic. Galactic Superpower gives a buff to your fleet, Beacon of Prosperity gives a buff to your energy and mineral production, and World Architect gives a buff to your megastructure build cost/speed, terraforming cost/speed and gene-modding costs. These options symbolises the diverging paths that each Ascended Empire can take.

[*]The special civics available will depend on other factors too, but in general it aims to enhance a specific type of gameplay. These will be fleshed out more in the future in terms of extra mechanics.

[*]On selection of this option, you will become and Ascended Empire, your ship and city graphics will change, your government will have a single, fanatical ethic, and your pops also will have a single ethic. The exception is for Fanatical Purifiers, Inwards Perfection, and Barbaric Despoilers. They will keep their ethics, governments and original civic, but receive buffs in the form of the other two civics.

[*]Once you have become an Ascended Empire, you will be given the Dark Matter Power Core and Dark Matter Thrusters, and you will continue your research journey to research Escorts, Battlecruisers, Titans, and advanced defense platforms. I have deliberately left out Dark Matter Shields so there will still be rewards for REing dead FE ships.
[/list]

The Fallen Empire ship themselves are rather self-explanatory. They were one-section monsters in the vanilla game, and I have split that into multiple sections for ease of view. Weapon locators have to be redone as a result. The ship colour variants available will depend on the civic option you have picked, as each ethic will have a canon (vanilla) variant, and a non-canon variant. For example the canon variant of the Spiritualist ethic will look like vanilla Spiritualist FE colors, while the non-canon in general are for World Architects and special civics. Despite an increase in the number of ship sets available, I have managed to compress most of these textures and therefore most players should receive performance increases. I have named the FE defense stations as ．Defense Outpost・ in line with the ．Outpost・ stations of vanilla FE, and added a ．Defense Tower・, an unused station design hidden in the base game. I changed and took 4 Large slots from that and replaced it with 2 XL slots, as this game sorely lacked stations that can use XL weapons. (Tachyon Lance station is back!). I have also taken the pains to add weapon locators for these. As each of these designs become available after research, AI Ascended Empire will phase out the production of vanilla ship classes gradually.

I also discovered that the Perdition Beam is restricted to Apocalypse Titan class only, meaning you can't actually mount those on a Fallen Titan, and there is no titanic slot weapon available for the ship class! I have to make a Titan Lance for this, which is stats-wise the same as a Perdition Beam, so at least you can mount a weapon on this ship.

One of the other complaints I have received about the mod is the lack of continuity pre-ascension to post-ascension, in this case, someone・s God-emperor has become a mere emperor, since all Ascended Empires have the Galactic Ascendancy government with an Emperor. Now, this will depend a bit on the authority with which you ascend (so no emperor for democracies for example), but in general you will have a ruler title more closely resembling your previous government, although it is impossible to cover every case. This is done by adding a ton of governments like in vanilla, but name-wise they will all show up as Galactic Ascendancy so an Ascended Empire will almost always be recognizable.

With regards to the Fallen Empire Buildings available, they are Dark Matter Power Plant, Autonomous Fabricator, and Agri-Processing Plant. These are some very familiar buildings for old-timers and will have the same stats as vanilla FE buildings. I have overridden game files so that now you can build level 5 energy/mineral/food buildings everywhere so you can have these buildings as an upgrade to that, if you have the technology. In addition, these FE buildings now require the Engineering Perfection technology, and Dark Matter Power (vanilla) technology. You can get Dark Matter Power from REing dead FE ships, or from the Galactic Ascendancy Perk. This allows normal empires to find a way to get these buildings (albeit more difficult) and Ascended Empires will always be able to research them.

In terms of Apocalypse support, I have applied all initial 16 ship color variants to Colossus as well as energy beam, but I haven・t tested that fully yet. I just know that I fixed all 500+ lines in the error log lol. Let me know if you find something. You will be able to build Fallen Titans post-ascension as well as Apocalypse Titans pre-ascension. Each of these will be subjected to limit of max 3 per empire, so you can have up to 6. Fallen Titans are stronger individually but do not offer auras, so that people without Apocalypse can still play. However, no weapons in the Titanic slot are currently available in this mod. PDX has also not provided the starbase, starhold, or starfortress arts for Fallen/Awakened Empires, as they were told never to upgrade them. I have to replicate the model they used for Outpost for these as otherwise they will revert to primitive graphics. Also, using the new citadel art, I have now managed to also use that (albeit much smaller) as the FE habitats, so you can build FE-looking habitats.

Finally, there are the define values. Decadence is back, and will hit Ascended Empires, but much more slowly than vanilla. I have lowered the decadence increase per month from 2 to 0.2, which means that it will be ~10x as long before you reach full decadence, about 100 years from the point of Ascension. While PDX・s intention is to limit the power of Awakened Empires, this mechanic actually has some story potential here. No civilization should be invincible forever, and as your advantages provided by your civics are whittled away over many decades, it should be increasingly harder to stay in power. New Ascended Empires may rise, and old ones may fall. What will you do to maintain your galactic influence? Also, I have ensured that Awakened and Ascended Empires do not pay double the research cost as they do currently in vanilla, as it allows for a more expansive tech tree after Ascension. Of course, people who do not agree with these values can always create their own add-on which can specifically change the aforementioned features.
